language is pretty fundamental to who we
are and there are obviously differences
between languages but it turns out there
are some similarities between wildly
different languages and I'm here at the
Department of linguistics at MIT to talk
to David possess key about what those
similarities are
so languages are obviously very
different you know I can't understand
somebody speaking Russian that's right
but you look at how they're the same
right well the words are different right
but the laws that make that make up the
words and the laws that combine the
words into sentences that we use to
express thoughts many of them turn out
to be the same across languages if I
said hello to you in English and you
answered in Russian I wouldn't
understand you but you're saying that
the way that you're answering is not so
different from the way that I'm asking
exactly or if even if you know the words
right the order in which they come the
ways in which they combine are somewhat
different you know it was sentence like
you know John has written the letter
would come out in Japanese even
forgetting about you know what the words
are is you know John the letter written
has right so the laws that that tell you
the order in which words come in English
they're different from the ones that
govern Japanese but it turns out that
they differ in a very systematic way so
there are you know lots of variations in
word order across languages but there
are lots of variations you don't get
lots of kinds of languages you might
imagine exist that don't exist so if you
were to take that sentence and rearrange
it in all the possible ways only a small
set of them are actually used anywhere
exactly right yeah precisely but at some
point in everybody's life you don't have
a language you're learning these things
for the first time is is there something
inherent there that why we have
similarities in all languages or do we
even know well let me know on the one
hand it looks like all languages are
similar and so we speculate that that's
because there's a kind of a master plan
or blueprint for language that we all
have and then what we expect to find is
that when you look at the process of
language acquisition by by children by
very young children you expect to find
signs of that loop rent so you expected
to find children acting as if they know
things that they haven't actually been
taught they just know it because they're
human beings the way you know bees know
you know how to behave when they find
honey and you expect that the kinds of
evidence from the linguistic
environments that children pay attention
to will also be limited by the ways in
which we know language is very an actual
research into language acquisition by
children has confirmed that my children
know things that there's no evidence for
and they also interestingly fail to
learn things
that there might be evidence for because
it's not part of what they're put to
learn its language leaders as human
beings so if you look at someone's brain
when they're learning language and are
using language can you see any of this
well someday the answer might be yes so
you know we are learning more and more
about the ways in which language is
computed in the brain everyday but the
nitty-gritty of it still remains a
mystery so the kinds of things that
linguists discover about the structure
of languages they're surely implemented
in the brain the way we have you know
computer hardware that implements the
software but exactly how that's done
people in neurolinguistics neuroscience
that I talk to occasionally they don't
know yet they don't have the answers to
that yet but does it seem like the work
that you do and the work that they do
are moving toward the same goal they
said I have to write ideas to the extent
to which we're discovering at an
abstract level how languages are put
together and we know that you know it's
the brain that computes that stuff we
have to be convergent in that goal when
the convergence will happen well that's
the mystery to me too
well I think it's really exciting and I
appreciate you telling me about how it
works I think it's very exciting - thank
you very much
you